# Tools

This directory contains tools for design automation and for the
external communication with an ESP SoC.

* **AccGen** is a tool for generating the skeleton of an accelerator
  as well as its testbench, a bare-metal test application, and a Linux
  device driver and test application. Currently the tool has support
  for the Stratus HLS, Vivado HLS and hls4ml accelerator flows (see
  `accelerators/README.md` for more details on each flow). The tool is
  implemented as an interactive script.

* **PLMGen** is a tool for generating multi-port and multi-bank
  private local memories (PLM) for accelerators implemented in
  SystemC. The HLS tools can map arrays to the memories generated by
  PLMGen.

* **SoCGen** is a tool for configuring and generating an ESP SoC. It
  can be used with a GUI or in batch mode.

* **SocketGen** is a tool for generating the RTL for some of the ESP
  tile sockets and their components, based on the SoC configuration
  specified with the _SoCGen_ tool.

* **ESPLink** is a tool to control an ESP SoC from a host
  machine. _ESPLink_ communicates with the debug unit on the ESP SoC
  via Ethernet.

* **ESPMon** is a tool for monitoring the hardware performance
  counters of an ESP SoC from a host machine. _ESPMon_ communicates
  with the monitor unit on the ESP SoC via Ethernet. It can be used
  with a GUI or in batch mode. Currently this tool can be used only
  with two of the FPGA boards supported for ESP through their MMI64
  interface: the proFPGA quad Virtex7 Prototyping System and the
  proFPGA quad Virtex UltraScale Prototyping System.
